Let's work together through an example of building a confidence interval.
Specifically, we'll be looking at how heights
range based on coffee drinking habits and based on age.
Here, I have two datasets,
which I have labeled coffee full,
and coffee red for coffee reduced.
Notice that the second is just a subset of the first.
The csv is linked in the resources so you can follow along,
as well as a workspace on the next concept.
I set the seed, which you can do to follow exactly my steps.
Consider that the larger dataset is all of the individuals in our population.
While the smaller dataset is just a random sample that we selected.
In the real world, we wouldn't necessarily have all the information in the full dataset,
but it will be useful for some of the examples we'll be working through.
Let's calculate some statistics about the individuals who drink coffee in our sample.
We can see that we have approximately 57 percent
of individuals that drink coffee in our sample,
and we can see the average height of these individuals is approximately 68.52 inches.
Now, let's boot strap from the sample to build a confidence interval.
Remember, we don't have the population data to work with.
So, we cannot use that to build the interval.
By cutting off the bottom two and a half and the top two and a half percent,
we built 95 percent in the middle portion.
We can interpret these values as the bounds where we believe
the mean height of all coffee drinkers in the population to be,
with 95 percent confidence,
between 68.06 and 68.97 inches tall.
Let's go back and see what the population mean actually was.
Looks like in this case, we were successful using our confidence interval.
But that's not always the case. Your turn.
Use the notebook and prompts in the next concept to answer the quiz question that follow.